# Communities Matter

It's winter break in 2000 and I am 12 years old. A friend of my parents,
knowing little about video games, bought me EverQuest: Ruins Of Kunark with no
knowledge of what they had just done. They briefly mentioned that the cover
looked like some of my Dungeons and Dragons books. I've finally convinced my
parents to type their credit card info into the sign up form so I can play my
30 days. "If I end up not playing, we can just cancel for free", I say. How
naive.

When I finally settle (after hours of deliberation) on creating a human wizard
from the mighty city of Qeynos, I get into the game and... nothing. The screen
is black. The interface seems to work, but I can't see *anything*. Lost in the
dark, I move around a bit and see a light behind me. Scared to move away from
the torch, I ask in chat if anyone would help me. Someone responds and talks me
through reading a note in my inventory about seeing my guildmaster and
equipping the candle I spawned with. He is level 5 so he walks me through the
city to the fields where I can hunt low level monsters. Qeynos is actually just
a really large keep and thus quite the maze. We hunt together for a little bit
and as the sun begins to rise over the fields at the foot of Qeynos's entrance
gate, he has to go put on dinner. I bid him farewell and we add each other to
our friend lists.

To put it lightly, I fell in love immediately. I had played a game for a few
minutes and I had already made a friend. Over the years I would make many
friends, some of whom I still talk to today. Late nights up fishing with
a person or two on the shores of Velious because the sea noise was so zen. Many
hour long raids with 72 people trying to claim a piece of gear needed for
a quest. Guilds full of friends and drama. My guild even threw a party for me
in game when I got in to the college of my dreams!

Years later, when I was still in high school, a friend of mine and I shared my
EQ account for a while. He had wanted to play but couldn't really justify
paying for it so we split time. One of the big parts of the game I had never
managed to do was claim an epic weapon for myself. This weapon was truly epic,
even years later when it had become simpler to collect. You needed random items
from all over the game which were hard to obtain and often required many
players cooperating. 
